module.exports = "In 2013, I identified and proposed a business opportunity for providing [UX services at Salient CRGT](http://www.salientcrgt.com/capabilities/user-experience-design/), and spearheaded the creation of the UX Practice. Over several years, I hosted a number of briefings both internally and with clients explaining what UX is, why it matters, and the ROI of UX. I successfully evangelized at the executive level, and the team continues to thrive at the company today.\n\n## Early days: UX Team of One\n\nAt the beginning of creating this practice, I acted as a \"UX Team of One\". I defined my job duties in the following way:\n\n1. Apply UX design practices to new projects, enhancement efforts, and redesigns.\n2. Initiate, recommend, and spearhead major refactorings for better user experiences.\n3. Maintain an internal repository of resources, processes, lessons learned, UI assets, and boilerplate\n4. Act as “go to” with in-depth knowledge of UX best practices and standards, reaching out, educating, challenging and persuading others.\n\nTo lend credibility to the practice, I pursued a [Certificate in User Experience Design](http://nyusps.basno.com/9i18524o) from NYU SCPS. Here is [my final project](/project/faneverything) for that certification.\n\n## Teaching UX\n\nI created a 6-week course with homework, handouts, and additional resources. The trainees were Business Analysts, Developers, and Project Managers across the company, and I taught the course twice. I also helped place trainees in projects after completion of the course.\n\n1. Demystifying UX\n2. User Research and Information Architecture\n3. Wireframing\n4. Prototyping\n5. Visual Design\n6. Usability Testing\n\n<div class=\"center\"><iframe src=\"https://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/key/iY4GJLqRUFQl6T\" width=\"427\" height=\"356\" frameborder=\"0\" marginwidth=\"0\" marginheight=\"0\" scrolling=\"no\" style=\"border:1px solid #CCC; border-width:1px; margin-bottom:5px; max-width: 100%;\" allowfullscreen> </iframe></div>\n\n## A growing team\n\nAfter much proposal writing and client briefings, our project opportunities expanded quickly and we began hiring. With these expanding opportunities, my role expanded to...\n\n* Collaborating with team members to define our shared methodology.\n* Defining our service offerings.\n* Designing the team structure.\n* Creating a strategic plan.\n\nI also acted as an Agile product owner and developer on the \"UX Scorecard\" application. It is a Salient CRGT intranet application to measure overall usability by testing against best practices and standards. It uses the MEAN stack (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node).\n\n## Passing the ball\n\nCreating the UX Practice at Salient CRGT has been the defining achievement of my career so far. I was lucky to get on the train early and be part of UX becoming a trend. \n\nIt's a pattern I've since repeated, and will likely repeat again: taking something I am passionate about, gathering people around me, getting them excited about it, then passing my knowledge on. "